documentation/man/features/backup.rst, before:

=========
kw-backup
=========

.. _backup-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* *backup* [<path>]
| *kw* *backup* (-r | \--restore) <path> [(-f | \--force)]

DESCRIPTION
===========
  If you provide a path, a tar.gz file will be generated and stored in *<path>*,
  containing all the data found in the **KW_DATA_DIR** folder. If no path is
  provided, then the backup will be stored in the current directory.

OPTIONS
=======
-r, \--restore <path>:
  This option allows you to recover all the data from kw, by extracting a tar.gz
  file located in *<path>* and storing it back again in the **KW_DATA_DIR**
  folder. If files with the same name are found during the restoration process,
  then it will by default ask you on how to proceed. To simply replace all files
  from **KW_DATA_DIR** with the backup, you may use the `\--force` option.

EXAMPLES
========

To generate a backup file in your current directory, run::

  kw backup

You can also specify the directory to save the backup. Let's say you want to
save it into /documents/backup, then run::

  kw backup /documents/backup

To restore a backup, use the `\--restore` option. Suppose you want to restore the
backup stored in /documents/backup/kw-backup-from-yesterday.tar.gz, run::

  kw backup --restore /documents/backup/kw-backup-from-yesterday.tar.gz

Commit message:

src: backup: Adding verbose mode
This commit adds support for the verbose parameter within `kw backup`.
The verbose parameter gives details of the commands that are executed
behind the scenes.

Note: This is part of the issue: #179

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Aquila Macedo <aquilamacedo@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/backup.rst, after:

=========
kw-backup
=========

.. _backup-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* *backup* [<path>]
| *kw* *backup* (-r | \--restore) <path> [(-f | \--force)]
| *kw* *backup* (\--verbose)

DESCRIPTION
===========
  If you provide a path, a tar.gz file will be generated and stored in *<path>*,
  containing all the data found in the **KW_DATA_DIR** folder. If no path is
  provided, then the backup will be stored in the current directory.

OPTIONS
=======
-r, \--restore <path>:
  This option allows you to recover all the data from kw, by extracting a tar.gz
  file located in *<path>* and storing it back again in the **KW_DATA_DIR**
  folder. If files with the same name are found during the restoration process,
  then it will by default ask you on how to proceed. To simply replace all files
  from **KW_DATA_DIR** with the backup, you may use the `\--force` option.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

EXAMPLES
========

To generate a backup file in your current directory, run::

  kw backup

You can also specify the directory to save the backup. Let's say you want to
save it into /documents/backup, then run::

  kw backup /documents/backup

To restore a backup, use the `\--restore` option. Suppose you want to restore the
backup stored in /documents/backup/kw-backup-from-yesterday.tar.gz, run::

  kw backup --restore /documents/backup/kw-backup-from-yesterday.tar.gz
