documentation/man/features/configm.rst, before:

==========
kw-configm
==========

.. _configm-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [(-s | \--save) <name> [(-d | \--description) <description>] [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [-l | \--list]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]]:
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [\--get <name> [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [(-r | \--remove) <name> [-f | \--force]]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **configm** command manages different versions of the project's **.config**
file. It provides the save, load, remove, and list operations of such files. By
default, if the user does not provide any parameter, the configm will list all
configs under kw management.

OPTIONS
=======
\--save <name> [-d <description>] [-f | \--force]:
  The save option searches the current directory for a **.config** file to be
  kept under the management of **kw**. The save option expects a name to identify
  this version of the file. Additionally, users can add a description by
  using ``-d`` flag. Finally, if the user tries to add the same name twice,
  **kw** will issue a warning; ``-f`` will suppress this message.

-l, \--list:
  Lists all the **.config** file versions available. If the user does not
  provide any command option, kw will assume the list option.

\--get <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Get a config file based on the *<name>* and paste it in the current
  directory. It pop-up a warning message because this operation override the
  current **.config** file. The user can suppress this warning by using ``-f``
  flag.

-r <name> [-f | \--force], \--remove <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Remove config labeled with *<name>*. It pop-up a warning message because it
  will remove the config file from kw management. The user can suppress this
  warning by using ``-f``.

\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]:
  This option fetches a .config file from a target machine to your current
  directory. If another .config is found in this directory, then it will ask you
  whether you want to replace it or not. If you use the force option, the
  .config file will be overwritten without any warnings. By using the output
  option, you can specify the config file name. With the optimize option,
  `make localmodconfig` will be run to generate an optimized version of a
  previously fetched .config file.


EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

In case you want that kw saves your current **.config** file, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw g --save my_current_config

You can see the config's file maintained by kw with::

  kw g --list

If you want to fetch a .config file from a remote machine at localhost:2222 with
user root, then you can run::

  kw configm --fetch --remote root@localhost:2222

Commit message:

docs: config_manager: reword man page
As this manpage's wording was a little confusing, reword it.

This commit also fixes formatting.

Reviewed-by: Rubens Gomes Neto <rubens.gomes.neto@usp.br>
Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajorado@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Isabella Basso <isabbasso@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/configm.rst, after:

==========
kw-configm
==========

.. _configm-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [(-s | \--save) <name> [(-d | \--description) <description>] [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [-l | \--list]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]]:
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [\--get <name> [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*g* | *configm*) [(-r | \--remove) <name> [-f | \--force]]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **configm** command manages different versions of the project's **.config**
file. It provides the save, load, remove, and list operations of such files. By
default, if the user does not provide any parameter, the configm will list all
configs under **kw**'s management.

OPTIONS
=======
\--save <name> [-d <description>] [-f | \--force]:
  The save option creates a snapshot of the **.config** file in the current
  folder in **kw**'s management system under the specified *<name>*.
  Additionally, users can add a description by using the ``-d`` flag. Finally,
  if the user tries to add another config with a name that's already being
  managed, **kw** will issue a warning; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning.

-l, \--list:
  Lists all the **.config** file versions available. This is also the default
  behavior when no option is specified.

\--get <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Get a copy of the config file with the provided *<name>* in the current
  directory. As this operation overwrites the current **.config** file a
  warning is shown; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any
  destructive operations.

-r <name> [-f | \--force], \--remove <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Remove config labeled with *<name>* from **kw**'s management system. As this
  operation removes a **.config** file from kw management a warning is shown;
  ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any destructive operations.

\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]:
  Fetches a **.config** file from a target machine to your current directory.
  If another config is found in this directory, then **kw** will ask you
  whether you want to replace it or not; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning
  and carry on any destructive operations. ``--output`` allows you to specify
  the config file name, and ``--optimize`` will run `make localmodconfig` in
  order to generate a config that's optimized for the target machine.

EXAMPLES
========
In the following examples, we assume your **kworkflow.config** file is already
properly configured.

In case you want **kw** to save your current **.config** file, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw g --save my_current_config

You can see the config's file maintained by **kw** with::

  kw g --list

If you want to fetch a config from a remote machine (available at
``localhost:2222``) as root, you can run::

  kw configm --fetch --remote root@localhost:2222
