documentation/man/features/kernel-config-manager.rst, before:

========================
kw-kernel-config-manager
========================

.. _kernel-config-manager-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [(-s | \--save) <name> [(-d | \--description) <description>] [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [-l | \--list]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]]:
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [\--get <name> [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [(-r | \--remove) <name> [-f | \--force]]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **kernel-config-manager** command manages different versions of the project's **.config**
file. It provides the save, load, remove, and list operations of such files. By
default, if the user does not provide any parameter, the kernel-config-manager will list all
configs under **kw**'s management.

.. note::
  This feature has interoperability with the kw env feature.

OPTIONS
=======
\--save <name> [-d <description>] [-f | \--force]:
  The save option creates a snapshot of the **.config** file in the current
  folder in **kw**'s management system under the specified *<name>*.
  Additionally, users can add a description by using the ``-d`` flag. Finally,
  if the user tries to add another config with a name that's already being
  managed, **kw** will issue a warning; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning.

-l, \--list:
  Lists all the **.config** file versions available. This is also the default
  behavior when no option is specified.

\--get <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Get a copy of the config file with the provided *<name>* in the current
  directory. As this operation overwrites the current **.config** file a
  warning is shown; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any
  destructive operations.

-r <name> [-f | \--force], \--remove <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Remove config labeled with *<name>* from **kw**'s management system. As this
  operation removes a **.config** file from kw management a warning is shown;
  ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any destructive operations.

\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]:
  Fetches a **.config** file from a target machine to your current directory.
  If another config is found in this directory, then **kw** will ask you
  whether you want to replace it or not; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning
  and carry on any destructive operations. ``--output`` allows you to specify
  the config file name, and ``--optimize`` will run `make localmodconfig` in
  order to generate a config that's optimized for the target machine.

EXAMPLES
========
In the following examples, we assume your **kworkflow.config** file is already
properly configured.

In case you want **kw** to save your current **.config** file, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw k --save my_current_config

You can see the config's file maintained by **kw** with::

  kw k --list

If you want to fetch a config from a remote machine (available at
``localhost:2222``) as root, you can run::

  kw kernel-config-manager --fetch --remote root@localhost:2222

Commit message:

src: kernel_config_manager: Introduce verbose mode for kernel config
Expand kernel-config-manager feature to support verbose mode.

Related to #857

Reviewed-by: David Tadokoro <davidbtadokoro@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/kernel-config-manager.rst, after:

========================
kw-kernel-config-manager
========================

.. _kernel-config-manager-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [(-s | \--save) <name> [(-d | \--description) <description>] [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [-l | \--list]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]]:
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [\--get <name> [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [(-r | \--remove) <name> [-f | \--force]]
| *kw* (*k* | *kernel-config-manager*) [\--verbose]]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **kernel-config-manager** command manages different versions of the project's **.config**
file. It provides the save, load, remove, and list operations of such files. By
default, if the user does not provide any parameter, the kernel-config-manager will list all
configs under **kw**'s management.

.. note::
  This feature has interoperability with the kw env feature.

OPTIONS
=======
\--save <name> [-d <description>] [-f | \--force]:
  The save option creates a snapshot of the **.config** file in the current
  folder in **kw**'s management system under the specified *<name>*.
  Additionally, users can add a description by using the ``-d`` flag. Finally,
  if the user tries to add another config with a name that's already being
  managed, **kw** will issue a warning; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning.

-l, \--list:
  Lists all the **.config** file versions available. This is also the default
  behavior when no option is specified.

\--get <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Get a copy of the config file with the provided *<name>* in the current
  directory. As this operation overwrites the current **.config** file a
  warning is shown; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any
  destructive operations.

-r <name> [-f | \--force], \--remove <name> [-f | \--force]:
  Remove config labeled with *<name>* from **kw**'s management system. As this
  operation removes a **.config** file from kw management a warning is shown;
  ``-f`` will suppress such a warning and carry on any destructive operations.

\--fetch [(-o | \--output) <filename>] [-f | \--force] [\--optimize] [\--remote [<remote>:<port>]]:
  Fetches a **.config** file from a target machine to your current directory.
  If another config is found in this directory, then **kw** will ask you
  whether you want to replace it or not; ``-f`` will suppress such a warning
  and carry on any destructive operations. ``--output`` allows you to specify
  the config file name, and ``--optimize`` will run `make localmodconfig` in
  order to generate a config that's optimized for the target machine.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

EXAMPLES
========
In the following examples, we assume your **kworkflow.config** file is already
properly configured.

In case you want **kw** to save your current **.config** file, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw k --save my_current_config

You can see the config's file maintained by **kw** with::

  kw k --list

If you want to fetch a config from a remote machine (available at
``localhost:2222``) as root, you can run::

  kw kernel-config-manager --fetch --remote root@localhost:2222
