documentation/man/features/kw-build.rst, before:

=======================
kw-build - Build kernel
=======================

.. _build-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-i | \--info)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-n | \--menu)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-d | \--doc)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--ccache] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-S | \--cpu-scaling)] <percentage> [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-w | \--warnings)] [warning-levels] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-s | \--save-log-to)] <path> [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--llvm] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-c | \--clean)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-f | \--full-cleanup)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--cflags]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
If users invoke this option without parameters, *kw* will look at the local
Makefile and, based on that, start to build the project. This option tries to
take advantage of your hardware by using the ``-j`` option with the appropriate
parameter.

This command can be used in conjunction with :ref:`deploy<deploy-doc>` by
invoking ``kw bd``.

.. note::
  This command must be run inside of a kernel tree.

OPTIONS
=======
-i, \--info:
  The info option, makes so the build information such as the kernel release
  name and the total number of modules compiled will be displayed.

-n, \--menu:
  The menu option invokes the kernel menuconfig. Notice that the default menu
  config can be changed in the **kworkflow.config** file by setting a different
  option in *menu_config*. If the user is working in a *cross-compile*
  environment, it is recommended to use this option to avoid messing with the
  config file manually.

-d, \--doc:
  The doc option provides a mechanism for building the kernel-doc; by default,
  it will build htmldocs. Users can change the default documentation output by
  changing the parameter *doc_type* in the **kworkflow.config** file.

-S, \--cpu-scaling:
  The cpu-scaling option lets the user set whichever CPU usage they want from
  their CPU, basically setting the ``-j`` flag accordingly.

\--ccache:
  This option allows the user to enable ``ccache`` usage during compilation
  tasks, which should improve compile times in subsequent compilations. If you
  want, you can set this option in the build.config file.

-w, \--warnings (1 | 2 | 3 | 12 | 13 | 23 | 123):
  This can be used to enable compilation warnings accordingly. You can set the
  default log level via `build.config` file under the option `warning_level`.
  Please check the kernel's ``make help`` for more info.

-s, \--save-log-to=path:
  This option will save the full compilation log with the enabled warnings to
  the specified path. You can set the default log path in the `build.config`
  file via `log_path` option.

\--llvm:
  This option can be set to enable the usage of the LLVM toolchain during
  compilation/linking tasks. You can enable it by default via `use_llvm` option
  in the `build.config` file.

-c, \--clean:
  The clean option removes files generated by the kernel build system but
  keeps the kernel configuration. This option considers whether the user
  is using or not kw env.

-f, \--full-cleanup:
  Under the hood, this command runs `make distclean`, resetting the built environment
  to its initial/default state. In other words, it will remove files generated by the
  build process, including configuration files and script output. This option also
  considers whether or not the user is using kw env.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

\--cflags:
  This function provides a flexible way to pass CFLAGS when compiling a custom kernel, allowing
  you to customize and tune the build process to your specific needs. This is especially useful
  for optimizing performance and controlling generated kernel behavior.

\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n):
  Defines the alert behaviour upon the command completion.
    | **s** enables sound notification.
    | **v** enables visual notification.
    | **sv** or **vs** enables both.
    | **n** (or any other option) disables notifications (this is the default).

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

For building and installing a new module version based on the current kernel
version, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw bd

If you want that kw become more verbose about the compilation warning, you can
use::

  kw build --warnings=1

Let's say that you are doing something else and don't want that your CPU cores
to be super busy during the compilation; you can tell kw how much of the CPU
utilization you are willing to give for the kernel compilation::

  kw b --cpu-scaling=50

If you like to use ccache to build your kernel, you can use::

  kw b --ccache

If you want to ensure that your change does not add any relevant warning, you
can use::

  kw b --warnings

If you want to see other warning levels, you can change the log level by
using::

  kw b --warnings 2

Sometimes we have a lot of error message that does not fit in the terminal
buffer; in these cases it is helpful to save all logs in a file::

  kw b --warnings 123 --save-log-to=ALL_WARNINGS.log

If you want to use llvm::

  kw b --llvm

If you want to clean your kernel::

  kw b --clean

If you want to reset the kernel tree to its default, `all config and script output will be removed`::

  kw b --full-cleanup

If you want to use cflags::

  kw b --cflags "-O3 -pipe -march=native"

Commit message:

documentation: man: update man pages to use correct config files
Most man pages still mentioned a root level kworkflow.config file as
the only source of user-adjustable settings. This commit replaces
outdated references to kworkflow.config with the specific
.kw/<command>.config format currently used by kw config and also
recommends the use of kw config to adjust these options.

In doing so, this commit also removes the list of adjustable options
from the main kw.rst man page, as these were outdated, are now mostly
command-specific and could cause confusion in new users.
Further changes are needed to redistribute these explanations
(when needed) to more adequate locations.

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Schwartz <gschwartz@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/kw-build.rst, after:

=======================
kw-build - Build kernel
=======================

.. _build-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-i | \--info)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-n | \--menu)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-d | \--doc)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--ccache] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-S | \--cpu-scaling)] <percentage> [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-w | \--warnings)] [warning-levels] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-s | \--save-log-to)] <path> [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--llvm] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-c | \--clean)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [(-f | \--full-cleanup)] [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--cflags]
| *kw* (*b* | *build*) [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
If users invoke this option without parameters, *kw* will look at the local
Makefile and, based on that, start to build the project. This option tries to
take advantage of your hardware by using the ``-j`` option with the appropriate
parameter.

This command can be used in conjunction with :ref:`deploy<deploy-doc>` by
invoking ``kw bd``.

.. note::
  This command must be run inside of a kernel tree.

OPTIONS
=======
-i, \--info:
  The info option, makes so the build information such as the kernel release
  name and the total number of modules compiled will be displayed.

-n, \--menu:
  The menu option invokes the kernel menuconfig. Notice that the default menu
  config can be changed in the **build.config** file by setting a different
  option in *menu_config*. If the user is working in a *cross-compile*
  environment, it is recommended to use this option to avoid messing with the
  config file manually.

-d, \--doc:
  The doc option provides a mechanism for building the kernel-doc; by default,
  it will build htmldocs. Users can change the default documentation output by
  changing the parameter *doc_type* in the **build.config** file.

-S, \--cpu-scaling:
  The cpu-scaling option lets the user set whichever CPU usage they want from
  their CPU, basically setting the ``-j`` flag accordingly.

\--ccache:
  This option allows the user to enable ``ccache`` usage during compilation
  tasks, which should improve compile times in subsequent compilations. If you
  want, you can set this option in the build.config file.

-w, \--warnings (1 | 2 | 3 | 12 | 13 | 23 | 123):
  This can be used to enable compilation warnings accordingly. You can set the
  default log level via **build.config** file under the option `warning_level`.
  Please check the kernel's ``make help`` for more info.

-s, \--save-log-to=path:
  This option will save the full compilation log with the enabled warnings to
  the specified path. You can set the default log path in the **build.config**
  file via `log_path` option.

\--llvm:
  This option can be set to enable the usage of the LLVM toolchain during
  compilation/linking tasks. You can enable it by default via `use_llvm` option
  in the `build.config` file.

-c, \--clean:
  The clean option removes files generated by the kernel build system but
  keeps the kernel configuration. This option considers whether the user
  is using or not kw env.

-f, \--full-cleanup:
  Under the hood, this command runs `make distclean`, resetting the built environment
  to its initial/default state. In other words, it will remove files generated by the
  build process, including configuration files and script output. This option also
  considers whether or not the user is using kw env.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

\--cflags:
  This function provides a flexible way to pass CFLAGS when compiling a custom kernel, allowing
  you to customize and tune the build process to your specific needs. This is especially useful
  for optimizing performance and controlling generated kernel behavior.

\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n):
  Defines the alert behaviour upon the command completion.
    | **s** enables sound notification.
    | **v** enables visual notification.
    | **sv** or **vs** enables both.
    | **n** (or any other option) disables notifications (this is the default).

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we assume that the relevant fields in your configuration 
files (located by default in **.kw/**) have already been setup. We recommend
the use of ``kw config`` for managing your local and global configurations.

For building and installing a new module version based on the current kernel
version, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw bd

If you want that kw become more verbose about the compilation warning, you can
use::

  kw build --warnings=1

Let's say that you are doing something else and don't want that your CPU cores
to be super busy during the compilation; you can tell kw how much of the CPU
utilization you are willing to give for the kernel compilation::

  kw b --cpu-scaling=50

If you like to use ccache to build your kernel, you can use::

  kw b --ccache

If you want to ensure that your change does not add any relevant warning, you
can use::

  kw b --warnings

If you want to see other warning levels, you can change the log level by
using::

  kw b --warnings 2

Sometimes we have a lot of error message that does not fit in the terminal
buffer; in these cases it is helpful to save all logs in a file::

  kw b --warnings 123 --save-log-to=ALL_WARNINGS.log

If you want to use llvm::

  kw b --llvm

If you want to clean your kernel::

  kw b --clean

If you want to reset the kernel tree to its default, `all config and script output will be removed`::

  kw b --full-cleanup

If you want to use cflags::

  kw b --cflags "-O3 -pipe -march=native"
