documentation/man/features/kw-codestyle.rst, before:

=================================
kw-codestyle - Checkpatch wrapper
=================================

.. _codestyle-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*)
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*) [<directory> | <file> | <patch>]
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*) [\--verbose] [<directory> | <file> | <patch>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **checkpatch** tool is one of the most fabulous scripts provided by the
Linux Kernel to help developers follow the code style adopted by the project.
This command is a wrapper for **checkpatch**, with the goal of simplifying the
use of this tool; notice that you can specify a single file, an entire
directory, or a single patch.

OPTIONS
=======
<directory>, <file>, <patch>:
  Define which files to run checkpatch on. Defaults to current working
  directory if it is a kernel tree.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

For checking the code style::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw c drivers/iio/dummy/
  kw c drivers/iio/dummy/iio_simple_dummy.c

Commit message:

documentation: man: update man pages to use correct config files
Most man pages still mentioned a root level kworkflow.config file as
the only source of user-adjustable settings. This commit replaces
outdated references to kworkflow.config with the specific
.kw/<command>.config format currently used by kw config and also
recommends the use of kw config to adjust these options.

In doing so, this commit also removes the list of adjustable options
from the main kw.rst man page, as these were outdated, are now mostly
command-specific and could cause confusion in new users.
Further changes are needed to redistribute these explanations
(when needed) to more adequate locations.

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Schwartz <gschwartz@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/kw-codestyle.rst, after:

=================================
kw-codestyle - Checkpatch wrapper
=================================

.. _codestyle-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*)
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*) [<directory> | <file> | <patch>]
| *kw* (*c* | *codestyle*) [\--verbose] [<directory> | <file> | <patch>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
The **checkpatch** tool is one of the most fabulous scripts provided by the
Linux Kernel to help developers follow the code style adopted by the project.
This command is a wrapper for **checkpatch**, with the goal of simplifying the
use of this tool; notice that you can specify a single file, an entire
directory, or a single patch.

OPTIONS
=======
<directory>, <file>, <patch>:
  Define which files to run checkpatch on. Defaults to current working
  directory if it is a kernel tree.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we assume that the relevant fields in your configuration 
files (located by default in **.kw/**) have already been setup. We recommend
the use of ``kw config`` for managing your local and global configurations.

For checking the code style::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw c drivers/iio/dummy/
  kw c drivers/iio/dummy/iio_simple_dummy.c
