documentation/man/features/kw-deploy.rst, before:

=========================
kw-deploy - Deploy kernel
=========================

.. _deploy-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
*kw* (*d* | *deploy*) [\--remote <remote>:<port> | \--local]
                      [\--setup]
                      [-r | \--reboot] [\--no-reboot]
                      [-m | \--modules] [-s | \--ls-line]
                      [-l | \--list] [-a | \--list-all]
                      [(-u | \--uninstall) <kernel-name>[,...]] [-f \--force]
                      [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
                      [-p | \--create-package]
                      [(-F | \--from-package) <kw-package-path>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
If you are in a kernel directory, this command will try to install the current
kernel version in your target machine (remote, host, and VM). If you want to
install a kernel version in a remote machine, the following steps will be
executed:

1. Prepare a local directory with all the required files;

2. Send all the files to the target machine; and

3. Execute the operations that will update the target machine.

You can specify the deploy target via command line by using the flag
``--remote <remote>:<port>`` (e.g., ``--remote 172.16.254.1:22``); however, if
you do this frequently you will probably prefer to add this information to your
local **kworkflow.config**. See the example below::

  default_deploy_target=remote
  ssh_user=root
  ssh_ip=172.16.254.1
  ssh_port=22

If you want to install a new kernel version in your host machine, you can use
the flag ``--local``; you will need to use your root password.

Another typical operation when deploying a new kernel to a test machine, it is
the reboot after the update. You can explicitly say it for **kw** by adding the
flag ``--reboot``, add this to the **kworkflow.config** with::

  reboot_after_deploy=yes

This can be used with conjunction the :ref:`build<build-doc>` command by
invoking ``kw bd``.

OPTIONS
=======
\--remote <remote>:<port>:
  Deploy the Kernel image and modules to a machine in
  the network.

\--local:
  Deploy the Kernel image and modules in the host machine, you will
  need root access. ``kw deploy --local`` should not be executed with sudo
  or root.

-r, \--reboot:
  Reboot machine after deploy.

\--no-reboot:
  Do not reboot machine after deploy.

\--setup:
  This command runs a basic setup in the target machine, including installing
  packages and preparing the distro for the deploy.

-m, \--modules:
  Only install/update modules.

-l, \--list:
  List available kernels in a single column the target.

-a, \--list-all:
  List all available kernels, including the ones not installed by kw.

-s, \--ls-line:
  List available kernels separated by comma.

-u <kernel-name>[,...], \--uninstall <kernel-name>[,...]:
  Remove a single kernel or multiple kernels; for removing
  multiple kernels it is necessary to separate them with comma.

-f, \--force:
  Remove kernels even if they were not installed by kw (only valid with
  \--uninstall or -u). Trying to remove a kernel not directly managed by
  kw can lead to system failures, and it is not recommended; only use it
  if you are sure about what you are doing.

-p, \--create-package:
  It is possible to create a kw package that can be shared with other users and
  deployed with kw. This option instructs kw to just generate the package
  without deploying it; notice that the package will be available in the
  current folder.

-F, \--from-package:
  You can use this option to deploy a custom kernel from kw package.

\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n):
  Defines the alert behaviour upon the command completion.
    | **s** enables sound notification.
    | **v** enables visual notification.
    | **sv** or **vs** enables both.
    | **n** (or any other option) disables notifications (this is the default).

.. note::
  **Only run commands related to VM after you turn it off**. Under the hood, it
  executes the mount operation, followed by ``make modules_install`` with a
  specific target, and finally umounts the QEMU image.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

First, if you are working in a specific kernel module, and if you want to
install your recent changes in your local machine you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw d --local --modules

For building and installing a new module version based on the current kernel
version, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw bd

Now, let's say that you set up your configuration file to deploy your new
kernel to a machine reachable via ssh. You can run the following command in
order to prepare your target machine to receive your new kernel via `kw d`::

  kw deploy --setup

Alternatively, you can just run `kw d` directly; the standard behavior will
automatically run the setup operation in your first deploy.

Suppose that you want to share a specific kernel with someone else for
validation; you can generate a kw package with::

  kw deploy --create-package

The above command will create a \*.kw.tar package file that can be shared with
any other kw user. If you want to install a custom kernel from this package,
you can use::

  kw deploy --from-package 5.19.0-THIS-IS-AN-EXAMPLE+.kw.tar

Commit message:

documentation: man: update man pages to use correct config files
Most man pages still mentioned a root level kworkflow.config file as
the only source of user-adjustable settings. This commit replaces
outdated references to kworkflow.config with the specific
.kw/<command>.config format currently used by kw config and also
recommends the use of kw config to adjust these options.

In doing so, this commit also removes the list of adjustable options
from the main kw.rst man page, as these were outdated, are now mostly
command-specific and could cause confusion in new users.
Further changes are needed to redistribute these explanations
(when needed) to more adequate locations.

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Schwartz <gschwartz@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/kw-deploy.rst, after:

=========================
kw-deploy - Deploy kernel
=========================

.. _deploy-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
*kw* (*d* | *deploy*) [\--remote <remote>:<port> | \--local]
                      [\--setup]
                      [-r | \--reboot] [\--no-reboot]
                      [-m | \--modules] [-s | \--ls-line]
                      [-l | \--list] [-a | \--list-all]
                      [(-u | \--uninstall) <kernel-name>[,...]] [-f \--force]
                      [\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n)]
                      [-p | \--create-package]
                      [(-F | \--from-package) <kw-package-path>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
If you are in a kernel directory, this command will try to install the current
kernel version in your target machine (remote, host, and VM). If you want to
install a kernel version in a remote machine, the following steps will be
executed:

1. Prepare a local directory with all the required files;

2. Send all the files to the target machine; and

3. Execute the operations that will update the target machine.

You can specify the deploy target via command line by using the flag
``--remote <remote>:<port>`` (e.g., ``--remote 172.16.254.1:22``); however, if
you plan on deploying to the same remote frequently can benefit from using the
``kw remote`` feature to save the SSH information in a configuration file
used by kw, for example::

  kw remote --add origin root@172.16.254.1

For more information, check ``kw remote --help``

If you want to install a new kernel version in your host machine, you can use
the flag ``--local``; you will need to use your root password.

Another typical operation when deploying a new kernel to a test machine is
rebooting after the update. You can add the ``--reboot`` flag to a command to
explicitly make **kw** reboot the machine afterwards, or you can set this to 
always happen by modifying ``reboot_after_deploy`` flag in **deploy.config** with::

  kw config deploy.reboot_after_deploy yes

This can be used with conjunction the :ref:`build<build-doc>` command by
invoking ``kw bd``.

OPTIONS
=======
\--remote <remote>:<port>:
  Deploy the Kernel image and modules to a machine in
  the network.

\--local:
  Deploy the Kernel image and modules in the host machine, you will
  need root access. ``kw deploy --local`` should not be executed with sudo
  or root.

-r, \--reboot:
  Reboot machine after deploy.

\--no-reboot:
  Do not reboot machine after deploy.

\--setup:
  This command runs a basic setup in the target machine, including installing
  packages and preparing the distro for the deploy.

-m, \--modules:
  Only install/update modules.

-l, \--list:
  List available kernels in a single column the target.

-a, \--list-all:
  List all available kernels, including the ones not installed by kw.

-s, \--ls-line:
  List available kernels separated by comma.

-u <kernel-name>[,...], \--uninstall <kernel-name>[,...]:
  Remove a single kernel or multiple kernels; for removing
  multiple kernels it is necessary to separate them with comma.

-f, \--force:
  Remove kernels even if they were not installed by kw (only valid with
  \--uninstall or -u). Trying to remove a kernel not directly managed by
  kw can lead to system failures, and it is not recommended; only use it
  if you are sure about what you are doing.

-p, \--create-package:
  It is possible to create a kw package that can be shared with other users and
  deployed with kw. This option instructs kw to just generate the package
  without deploying it; notice that the package will be available in the
  current folder.

-F, \--from-package:
  You can use this option to deploy a custom kernel from kw package.

\--alert=(s | v | (sv | vs) | n):
  Defines the alert behaviour upon the command completion.
    | **s** enables sound notification.
    | **v** enables visual notification.
    | **sv** or **vs** enables both.
    | **n** (or any other option) disables notifications (this is the default).

.. note::
  **Only run commands related to VM after you turn it off**. Under the hood, it
  executes the mount operation, followed by ``make modules_install`` with a
  specific target, and finally umounts the QEMU image.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we assume that the relevant fields in your configuration 
files (located by default in **.kw/**) have already been setup. We recommend
the use of ``kw config`` for managing your local and global configurations.

First, if you are working in a specific kernel module, and if you want to
install your recent changes in your local machine you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw d --local --modules

For building and installing a new module version based on the current kernel
version, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw bd

Now, let's say that you set up your configuration file to deploy your new
kernel to a machine reachable via ssh. You can run the following command in
order to prepare your target machine to receive your new kernel via `kw d`::

  kw deploy --setup

Alternatively, you can just run `kw d` directly; the standard behavior will
automatically run the setup operation in your first deploy.

Suppose that you want to share a specific kernel with someone else for
validation; you can generate a kw package with::

  kw deploy --create-package

The above command will create a \*.kw.tar package file that can be shared with
any other kw user. If you want to install a custom kernel from this package,
you can use::

  kw deploy --from-package 5.19.0-THIS-IS-AN-EXAMPLE+.kw.tar
