documentation/man/features/kw-maintainers.rst, before:

===========================================
kw-maintainers - Display module maintainers
===========================================

.. _maintainers-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
*kw* (*m* | *maintainers*) [-a | \--authors] [-u | \--update-patch] [\--verbose]
                           [<dir> | <file>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
Based on the Linux Kernel get_maintainers script, this command shows the
maintainers of a given Kernel module (a given file or directory). The
``--authors`` option will also print the authors of the top-level target files
(non-recursively). Files with more than one author will have their names
separated by ",". This output should not be used by scripts because some
authors include "," in their names (e.g. "Company X, Inc."). The
``--update-patch`` will update the patch *<file>*'s header with a **To:**
field with the maintainers (excluding the authors) associated with that patch.

OPTIONS
=======
-a, \--authors:
  Prints the authors of the top-level target files (non-recursively). Files
  with more than one author will have their names separated by ",".

-u, \--update-patch:
  It will include a **To:** field in the header of the patch file with the
  contact of the maintainers (excluding the authors) associated with that
  patch.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

If you want to check the maintainers::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw m drivers/iio/dummy/iio_simple_dummy.c

Commit message:

documentation: man: update man pages to use correct config files
Most man pages still mentioned a root level kworkflow.config file as
the only source of user-adjustable settings. This commit replaces
outdated references to kworkflow.config with the specific
.kw/<command>.config format currently used by kw config and also
recommends the use of kw config to adjust these options.

In doing so, this commit also removes the list of adjustable options
from the main kw.rst man page, as these were outdated, are now mostly
command-specific and could cause confusion in new users.
Further changes are needed to redistribute these explanations
(when needed) to more adequate locations.

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Gabriel Schwartz <gschwartz@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/kw-maintainers.rst, after:

===========================================
kw-maintainers - Display module maintainers
===========================================

.. _maintainers-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
*kw* (*m* | *maintainers*) [-a | \--authors] [-u | \--update-patch] [\--verbose]
                           [<dir> | <file>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
Based on the Linux Kernel get_maintainers script, this command shows the
maintainers of a given Kernel module (a given file or directory). The
``--authors`` option will also print the authors of the top-level target files
(non-recursively). Files with more than one author will have their names
separated by ",". This output should not be used by scripts because some
authors include "," in their names (e.g. "Company X, Inc."). The
``--update-patch`` will update the patch *<file>*'s header with a **To:**
field with the maintainers (excluding the authors) associated with that patch.

OPTIONS
=======
-a, \--authors:
  Prints the authors of the top-level target files (non-recursively). Files
  with more than one author will have their names separated by ",".

-u, \--update-patch:
  It will include a **To:** field in the header of the patch file with the
  contact of the maintainers (excluding the authors) associated with that
  patch.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
For these examples, we assume that the relevant fields in your configuration 
files (located by default in **.kw/**) have already been setup. We recommend
the use of ``kw config`` for managing your local and global configurations.

If you want to check the maintainers::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw m drivers/iio/dummy/iio_simple_dummy.c
