documentation/man/features/kw-pomodoro.rst, before:

===============================================
kw-pomodoro - Create and manage Pomodoro timers
===============================================

.. _pomodoro-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-t | \--set-timer) <time>(h | m | s) [(-g | \--tag) <tag> [(-d | \--description) <desc>] [\--verbose]]
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-c | \--check-timer) [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-s | \--show-tags) [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
This feature provides a way for kernel developers to manage their time through
the Pomodoro technique.

One helpful feature associated with timers is the ``--tag | -g`` option since
it allows users to associate a simple tag to their timebox. Later, users can
generate a report that will display their focus time per tag. Users can
register a tag by simply use ``kw pomodoro --tag <name>``. The maximum length for
this tag is 32 characters. Optionally, users can provide an extra level of details
by associating a description to a specific tag by using ``--description | -d``.
It is recommended to use this option with the same tag and update the
description every time you work on a specific task; with that, kw can generate
a fine-grained report within a set of descriptions shown nested to a particular
tag.

Naturally, users might forget the tag name that they registered for a specific
task. For trying to help with this task, users can use ``kw pomodoro --show-tags``
to show all tags registered; the output also provides the tag ID.

.. note:: It is highly recommended to use tags and descriptions with a timebox.

OPTIONS
=======
-t <time>(h | m | s), \--set-timer <time>(h | m | s):
  This option expects an integer *<time>* that indicates the timer for the
  Pomodoro timebox. It is **mandatory** to add a suffix that indicates the time
  unit, which can be **h** (hour), **m** (minutes), or **s** (seconds).

-g <tag>, \--tag <tag>:
  Associate a tag to the timebox. If *<tag>* is an integer, kw will try to match
  it with an existent tag ID and translate it to the corresponding tag name. This
  option needs to be used in conjunction with ``--set-timer``

-d <desc>, \--description <desc>:
  This option allows for more descriptive text associated with the timer. The max
  length is 512 characters and this option needs to be used in conjunction with
  ``--tag`` and ``--set-timer``.

-c, \--check-timer:
  This option shows information associated of each active Pomodoro timebox.

-s, \--show-tags:
  This option shows all the registered tags.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
Create a Pomodoro timebox of 10 minutes without tags::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 10m

Show active Pomodoro timeboxes::

  kw pomodoro --check-timer

Show all registered tags::

  kw pomodoro --show-tags

Create a Pomodoro timebox of 1 hour with tag name 'kernel-dev' and description
'amd-gfx patch reviews'::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 1h --tag 'kernel-dev' --description 'amd-gfx patch reviews'

Create a Pomodoro timebox of 99 seconds with tag name corresponding to the tag
of ID 42::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 99s --tag 'kernel-dev

Commit message:

src: pomodoro: added --repeat-previous option to pomodoro
Adds the --repeat-previous option for pomodoro, which allows the user
to repeat the last pomodoro session without typing it all over again.
Its unit tests, autocompletion (for bash and zsh) and documentation
are also included.

Signed-off-by: Thiago Duvanel Ferreira <thiago.duvanel@usp.br>
Signed-off-by: David Tadokoro <davidbtadokoro@usp.br>

documentation/man/features/kw-pomodoro.rst, after:

===============================================
kw-pomodoro - Create and manage Pomodoro timers
===============================================

.. _pomodoro-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-t | \--set-timer) <time>(h | m | s) [(-g | \--tag) <tag> [(-d | \--description) <desc>] [\--verbose]]
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-c | \--check-timer) [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (-s | \--show-tags) [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*p* | *pomodoro*) (\--repeat-previous) [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
This feature provides a way for kernel developers to manage their time through
the Pomodoro technique.

One helpful feature associated with timers is the ``--tag | -g`` option since
it allows users to associate a simple tag to their timebox. Later, users can
generate a report that will display their focus time per tag. Users can
register a tag by simply use ``kw pomodoro --tag <name>``. The maximum length for
this tag is 32 characters. Optionally, users can provide an extra level of details
by associating a description to a specific tag by using ``--description | -d``.
It is recommended to use this option with the same tag and update the
description every time you work on a specific task; with that, kw can generate
a fine-grained report within a set of descriptions shown nested to a particular
tag.

Naturally, users might forget the tag name that they registered for a specific
task. For trying to help with this task, users can use ``kw pomodoro --show-tags``
to show all tags registered; the output also provides the tag ID.

.. note:: It is highly recommended to use tags and descriptions with a timebox.

OPTIONS
=======
-t <time>(h | m | s), \--set-timer <time>(h | m | s):
  This option expects an integer *<time>* that indicates the timer for the
  Pomodoro timebox. It is **mandatory** to add a suffix that indicates the time
  unit, which can be **h** (hour), **m** (minutes), or **s** (seconds).

-g <tag>, \--tag <tag>:
  Associate a tag to the timebox. If *<tag>* is an integer, kw will try to match
  it with an existent tag ID and translate it to the corresponding tag name. This
  option needs to be used in conjunction with ``--set-timer``

-d <desc>, \--description <desc>:
  This option allows for more descriptive text associated with the timer. The max
  length is 512 characters and this option needs to be used in conjunction with
  ``--tag`` and ``--set-timer``.

-c, \--check-timer:
  This option shows information associated of each active Pomodoro timebox.

-s, \--show-tags:
  This option shows all the registered tags.

\--repeat-previous:
  This option repeats the last Pomodoro timebox, with the same tag and description,
  if applied.

\--verbose:
  Display commands executed under the hood.

EXAMPLES
========
Create a Pomodoro timebox of 10 minutes without tags::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 10m

Show active Pomodoro timeboxes::

  kw pomodoro --check-timer

Show all registered tags::

  kw pomodoro --show-tags

Create a Pomodoro timebox of 1 hour with tag name 'kernel-dev' and description
'amd-gfx patch reviews'::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 1h --tag 'kernel-dev' --description 'amd-gfx patch reviews'

To repeat that same Pomodoro timebox, with the same tag name and description::

  kw pomodoro --repeat-previous

Create a Pomodoro timebox of 99 seconds with tag name corresponding to the tag
of ID 42::

  kw pomodoro --set-timer 99s --tag 'kernel-dev
