documentation/man/features/kw-ssh.rst, before:

==============================
kw-ssh - Access remote via ssh
==============================

.. _ssh-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-s | \--script) <script-path>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-c | \--command) <string-command>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-r | \--remote) <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) \--send <from-local-path> [\--to <to-remote-path>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) \--get <from-remote-path> [\--to <to-local-path>] [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
  Ssh into any machine reachable via the network. The ``--script`` parameter
  expects a bash script as a parameter to evaluate it in the target machine.
  The ``--command`` parameter expects a command to be executed inside of target
  machine.

OPTIONS
=======
-c <string-command>, \--command <string-command>:
  Receives a bash *<string-command>* to be executed remotely in the target
  machine.

-s <script-path>, \--script <script-path>:
  Receives the *<script-path>* of a local script to be run remotely.

-r <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>, \--remote <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>:
  Uses parameter to ssh into the target machine

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

\--send <from-local-path> \--to <to-remote-path>:
  Transfers a file or directory located in *<from-local-path>* to the remote destination
  specified in *<remote-path>*. If the user does not supply the ``--to`` option, the file or
  directory specified in *<from-local-path>* will be transferred to the user's home folder
  on the remote destination.

\--get <from-remote-path> \--to <to-local-path>:
  Gets a file or directory from the specified remote path *<from-remote-path>* and saves
  it to the local machine at the specified path *<to-local-path>*. When the user does not
  specify the ``--to`` option, the default destination directory is automatically set
  to the current directory where the user is located.

EXAMPLES
========

For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

After you start your VM you can ssh into it with::

  kw s -c "dmesg -wH"
  kw s

If you want to send a file or directory to a remote machine::

  kw s --send /path/to/file/or/folder --to /tmp/

If you want to get a file or directory from a remote machine::

  kw s --get /path/to/file/or/folder --to /path/to/save

Commit message:

documentation: man: update man pages to use correct config files
Most man pages still mentioned a root level kworkflow.config file as
the only source of user-adjustable settings. This commit replaces
outdated references to kworkflow.config with the specific
.kw/<command>.config format currently used by kw config and also
recommends the use of kw config to adjust these options.

In doing so, this commit also removes the list of adjustable options
from the main kw.rst man page, as these were outdated, are now mostly
command-specific and could cause confusion in new users.
Further changes are needed to redistribute these explanations
(when needed) to more adequate locations.

Signed-off-by: Gabriel Schwartz <gschwartz@usp.br>

documentation/man/features/kw-ssh.rst, after:

==============================
kw-ssh - Access remote via ssh
==============================

.. _ssh-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-s | \--script) <script-path>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-c | \--command) <string-command>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-r | \--remote) <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) \--send <from-local-path> [\--to <to-remote-path>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) \--get <from-remote-path> [\--to <to-local-path>] [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
  Ssh into any machine reachable via the network. The ``--script`` parameter
  expects a bash script as a parameter to evaluate it in the target machine.
  The ``--command`` parameter expects a command to be executed inside of target
  machine.

OPTIONS
=======
-c <string-command>, \--command <string-command>:
  Receives a bash *<string-command>* to be executed remotely in the target
  machine.

-s <script-path>, \--script <script-path>:
  Receives the *<script-path>* of a local script to be run remotely.

-r <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>, \--remote <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>:
  Uses parameter to ssh into the target machine

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

\--send <from-local-path> \--to <to-remote-path>:
  Transfers a file or directory located in *<from-local-path>* to the remote destination
  specified in *<remote-path>*. If the user does not supply the ``--to`` option, the file or
  directory specified in *<from-local-path>* will be transferred to the user's home folder
  on the remote destination.

\--get <from-remote-path> \--to <to-local-path>:
  Gets a file or directory from the specified remote path *<from-remote-path>* and saves
  it to the local machine at the specified path *<to-local-path>*. When the user does not
  specify the ``--to`` option, the default destination directory is automatically set
  to the current directory where the user is located.

EXAMPLES
========

For these examples, we assume that the relevant fields in your configuration 
files (located by default in **.kw/**) have already been setup. We recommend
the use of ``kw config`` for managing your local and global configurations.

After you start your VM you can ssh into it with::

  kw s -c "dmesg -wH"
  kw s

If you want to send a file or directory to a remote machine::

  kw s --send /path/to/file/or/folder --to /tmp/

If you want to get a file or directory from a remote machine::

  kw s --get /path/to/file/or/folder --to /path/to/save
