documentation/man/features/kw-send-patch.rst, before:

=============================================
kw send-patch - Send patches through mail
=============================================

.. _send-patch-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw send-patch* (-s | \--send) [\--simulate] [\--private] [\--rfc] [\--to='<recipient>,...'] [\--cc='<recipient>,...'] [<rev-range>...] [-v<version>] [\-- <extra-args>...]
| *kw send-patch* (-t | \--setup) [\--local | \--global] [-f | \--force] (<config> <value>)...
| *kw send-patch* (-i | \--interactive) [\--local | \--global]
| *kw send-patch* (-l | \--list)
| *kw send-patch* \--verify [\--local | \--global]
| *kw send-patch* \--template[=<template>] [-n | \--no-interactive] [\--local | \--global] [-f | \--force] [(<config> <value>)...]
| *kw send-patch* \--verbose


DESCRIPTION
===========
It is common to deal with patch submissions to a mailing list, and
``git send-email`` is one of the most famous tools for handling that. The
**send-patch** functionality aims to wrap this tool to simplify its usage and
integrate it with other **kw** functionalities.
If used inside of a linux kernel tree the send feature will auto populate the
*to* and *cc* fields of each patch file with the appropriate maintainers and
mailing lists fetched with the *get_maintainer.pl* script. It will also use
the union of the recipients of each patch as the recipients of the cover-letter.

.. note::
  You can block certain e-mail addresses from being automatically added to the
  recipients list of the patches using the *blocked_emails* option in the
  **send_patch.config** file.

.. note::
  You can add To\: and CC\: recipients to be included by default using the
  *default_to_recipients* and *default_cc_recipients* configurations, respectively,
  in the **send_patch.config** file.

.. note::
  Any option recognized by ``git send-email`` can be passed directly to it if
  placed after the double dash (``--``) argument.

OPTIONS
=======
-s, \--send:
  Send a patch by email using ``git send-email`` to the email addresses
  specified with ``--to`` and ``--cc``. You can provide *<extra-args>* to be
  passed directly to ``git send-email``, they should be placed after the double
  dash (``--``) argument. By default this function assumes these arguments to
  ``git send-email``::

    --annotate --cover-letter --no-chain-reply-to --thread

  .. note::
    You can change the default arguments used to send emails in the
    **send_patch.config** file.

\--to='<recipient>,...':
  Specify the recipients that will receive the patch via e-mail. The
  *<recipient>* list can be in any format accepted by ``git send-email``, e.g.:
  ``some@email.com`` or ``Xpto Lala <lala.xpto@mail.com>``.

\--cc='<recipient>,...':
  Specify the recipients that will receive a copy of the patch via e-mail.

\--simulate:
  Do everything without actually sending the e-mail. This is similar to
  ``git send-email``'s ``--dry-run`` option.

\--private:
  Suppress auto generation of recipients.

\--rfc:
  Add a request for comment prefix to the e-mail's subject.

<rev-range>...:
  Specify the *<rev-range>* to be sent. The last commit is taken as the
  default.

-v<version>:
  Specify a number *<version>* for your patch.

-t, \--setup:
  Initialize and configure **mail** functionality. Each argument specifies a
  *<config>* to be set with the corresponding *<value>*, multiple *<config>*
  *<value>* pairs may be passed at once. Current accepted options are::

    --name           <name>
    --email          <email>
    --smtpuser       <email>
    --smtpserver     <domain>
    --smtpserverport <port>
    --smtpencryption <encryption>
    --smtppass       <password>

-i, \--interactive:
  Interactively prompt the user for the values of the options. Recommended for
  inexperienced users.

-n, \--no-interactive:
  Inhibits interactive properties, particularly from the template option.

\--local:
  Forces the commands to be run at a local scope. If nothing is passed all
  changes will be applied locally, but the listing and verification will happen
  in all scopes.

\--global:
  Same as ``--local`` but in the global scope.

-f, \--force:
  Forces the configurations to be added, regardless of conflicts with the
  current values already set in the system. Implies ``--no-interactive``.

\--verify:
  Verify that all the settings needed are set and valid.

\--template[=<template>]:
  This loads the default configuration values based on the given *<template>*.
  If no template is given the user will be shown the available templates to
  choose from.

-l, \--list:
  Lists the settings that mail uses.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

EXAMPLES
========
If you wish to use gmail you can run the following command to setup all the
variables at once::

  kw send-patch -t --name 'Xpto Lala' --email myemail@gmail.com --smtpencryption tls \
    --smtpserver smtp.gmail.com --smtpserverport 587 --smtpuser myemail@gmail.com

To simulate sending the last commit as a patch just write::

  kw send-patch --send --simulate --to=some@email.com

Then when you are sure the command executed as expected, drop the
``--simulate`` argument to actually send the patch::

  kw send-patch --send --to=some@email.com

To send a range of commits the following can be used::

  kw send-patch  -s <SHA1>..<SHA2>

Extra arguments can be passed directly to ``git send-email`` like this::

  kw send-patch  -s --to='some@email.com' -- --thread

If you are inside of a linux kernel tree, you can send the last three commits
as a patchset to the maintainers of the subsystems and with copies to the
appropriate mailing lists using::

  kw send-patch  -s -3

Commit message:

documentation: man: features: kw_mail
The kw mail documentation did not contain information about the new
feature of sending files and/or directories as patches via kw mail send.
Therefore, add this information to the documentation to fix this error.

Signed-off-by: JGBSouza <joaosouzaaa12@gmail.com>

documentation/man/features/kw-send-patch.rst, after:

=============================================
kw send-patch - Send patches through mail
=============================================

.. _send-patch-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw send-patch* (-s | \--send) [\--simulate] [\--private] [\--rfc] [\--to='<recipient>,...'] [\--cc='<recipient>,...'] [<rev-range>...] [-v<version>] [\-- <extra-args>...]
| *kw send-patch* (-t | \--setup) [\--local | \--global] [-f | \--force] (<config> <value>)...
| *kw send-patch* (-i | \--interactive) [\--local | \--global]
| *kw send-patch* (-l | \--list)
| *kw send-patch* \--verify [\--local | \--global]
| *kw send-patch* \--template[=<template>] [-n | \--no-interactive] [\--local | \--global] [-f | \--force] [(<config> <value>)...]
| *kw send-patch* \--verbose


DESCRIPTION
===========
It is common to deal with patch submissions to a mailing list, and
``git send-email`` is one of the most famous tools for handling that. The
**send-patch** functionality aims to wrap this tool to simplify its usage and
integrate it with other **kw** functionalities.
If used inside of a linux kernel tree the send feature will auto populate the
*to* and *cc* fields of each patch file with the appropriate maintainers and
mailing lists fetched with the *get_maintainer.pl* script. It will also use
the union of the recipients of each patch as the recipients of the cover-letter.

.. note::
  You can block certain e-mail addresses from being automatically added to the
  recipients list of the patches using the *blocked_emails* option in the
  **send_patch.config** file.

.. note::
  You can add To\: and CC\: recipients to be included by default using the
  *default_to_recipients* and *default_cc_recipients* configurations, respectively,
  in the **send_patch.config** file.

.. note::
  Any option recognized by ``git send-email`` can be passed directly to it if
  placed after the double dash (``--``) argument.

OPTIONS
=======
-s, \--send:
  Send a patch by email using ``git send-email`` to the email addresses
  specified with ``--to`` and ``--cc``. You can provide *<extra-args>* to be
  passed directly to ``git send-email``, they should be placed after the double
  dash (``--``) argument. By default this function assumes these arguments to
  ``git send-email``::

    --annotate --cover-letter --no-chain-reply-to --thread

  .. note::
    You can change the default arguments used to send emails in the
    **send_patch.config** file.

  .. note::
    You can also send patch files and/or directories using the kw mail --send
    command by specifying the directory and/or patch file name directly with 
    ``git send-email <patch-file>`` or ``<patch-dir>``

\--to='<recipient>,...':
  Specify the recipients that will receive the patch via e-mail. The
  *<recipient>* list can be in any format accepted by ``git send-email``, e.g.:
  ``some@email.com`` or ``Xpto Lala <lala.xpto@mail.com>``.

\--cc='<recipient>,...':
  Specify the recipients that will receive a copy of the patch via e-mail.

\--simulate:
  Do everything without actually sending the e-mail. This is similar to
  ``git send-email``'s ``--dry-run`` option.

\--private:
  Suppress auto generation of recipients.

\--rfc:
  Add a request for comment prefix to the e-mail's subject.

<rev-range>...:
  Specify the *<rev-range>* to be sent. The last commit is taken as the
  default.

-v<version>:
  Specify a number *<version>* for your patch.

-t, \--setup:
  Initialize and configure **mail** functionality. Each argument specifies a
  *<config>* to be set with the corresponding *<value>*, multiple *<config>*
  *<value>* pairs may be passed at once. Current accepted options are::

    --name           <name>
    --email          <email>
    --smtpuser       <email>
    --smtpserver     <domain>
    --smtpserverport <port>
    --smtpencryption <encryption>
    --smtppass       <password>

-i, \--interactive:
  Interactively prompt the user for the values of the options. Recommended for
  inexperienced users.

-n, \--no-interactive:
  Inhibits interactive properties, particularly from the template option.

\--local:
  Forces the commands to be run at a local scope. If nothing is passed all
  changes will be applied locally, but the listing and verification will happen
  in all scopes.

\--global:
  Same as ``--local`` but in the global scope.

-f, \--force:
  Forces the configurations to be added, regardless of conflicts with the
  current values already set in the system. Implies ``--no-interactive``.

\--verify:
  Verify that all the settings needed are set and valid.

\--template[=<template>]:
  This loads the default configuration values based on the given *<template>*.
  If no template is given the user will be shown the available templates to
  choose from.

-l, \--list:
  Lists the settings that mail uses.

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

EXAMPLES
========
If you wish to use gmail you can run the following command to setup all the
variables at once::

  kw send-patch -t --name 'Xpto Lala' --email myemail@gmail.com --smtpencryption tls \
    --smtpserver smtp.gmail.com --smtpserverport 587 --smtpuser myemail@gmail.com

To simulate sending the last commit as a patch just write::

  kw send-patch --send --simulate --to=some@email.com

Then when you are sure the command executed as expected, drop the
``--simulate`` argument to actually send the patch::

  kw send-patch --send --to=some@email.com

To send a patch already formated in your files you can use::

  kw mail --send /path/to/file.patch

To send a patch directory containing formated patches in your file use instead::

  kw mail --send /path/to/patch-directory

To send a range of commits the following can be used::

  kw send-patch  -s <SHA1>..<SHA2>

Extra arguments can be passed directly to ``git send-email`` like this::

  kw send-patch  -s --to='some@email.com' -- --thread

If you are inside of a linux kernel tree, you can send the last three commits
as a patchset to the maintainers of the subsystems and with copies to the
appropriate mailing lists using::

  kw send-patch  -s -3
