documentation/man/features/remote.rst, before:

=========
kw-remote
=========

.. _remote-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw remote* [-v | \--verbose ]
| *kw remote add* <name> <user@remote:port>
| *kw remote remove* <name>
| *kw remote rename* <old-name> <new-name>
| *kw remote --list*
| *kw remote* (-s | \--set-default)=<name>

DESCRIPTION
===========
Manage the set of test machines ("remotes") you want that kw to have easy
access.  This feature directly interacts with kw configuration for remote
available at `.kw/remote.config`.

OPTIONS
=======
add <name> <remote-address>:
  Adds a remote named <name> for the test machine at <remote-address>. Notice
  that <remote_address> must follow this pattern `user@remote:port` where
  remote can be an IP or a name server.

remove <name>:
  Remove the remote named <name>.

rename <old-name> <new-name>:
  Rename the remote named <old> to <new>. If you try a name already in use, kw
  will fail with a message.

\--list:
  Lest all available remotes.

\-s=<name>, \--set-default=<name>:
  Set default remote to remote named <name>.

\-v, \--verbose:
  Be a little more verbose and show remote url after name.

EXAMPLES
========

In case you want **kw** to track a new test machine, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw remote add origin root@my-test-machine

If you do not use port 22, you can use::

  kw remote add my-x86-test-system root@my-test-machine:5555

If you want to remove some remote::

  kw remote remove origin

If you want to rename::

  kw remote rename origina arm-device

You can also list all your available remotes via::

 kw remote --list

If you want to set the default remote::

  kw remote --set-default=new-default-remote

Commit message:

documentation: man: remote: Revise kw remote man page
This commit corrects some typos, grammar errors and reinforces the
project's standards for the kw remote man page. The kw mail man page was
used as a reference for these changes, as kw mail is one of the newest
features of kw and its man page is a great example of documentation.

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: David Tadokoro <davidbtadokoro@usp.br>

documentation/man/features/remote.rst, after:

=========
kw-remote
=========

.. _remote-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw remote* [-v | \--verbose]
| *kw remote* add <name> <user>@<remote>[:<port>]
| *kw remote* remove <name>
| *kw remote* rename <old-name> <new-name>
| *kw remote* \--list
| *kw remote* (-s | \--set-default)=<name>

DESCRIPTION
===========
Manage the set of test machines ("remotes") you want kw to have easy
access.  This feature directly interacts with kw configuration for remote
available at `.kw/remote.config`.

OPTIONS
=======
add <name> <remote-address>:
  Adds a remote named <name> for the test machine at <remote-address>. Notice
  that <remote_address> must follow the pattern `<user>@<remote>[:<port>]` where
  `remote` can be an IP or a name server and `:<port>` is optional (default port
  is 22).

remove <name>:
  Remove the remote named <name>.

rename <old-name> <new-name>:
  Rename the remote named <old-name> to <new-name>. If you try a name already
  in use, kw will fail with a message.

\--list:
  List all available remotes.

\-s=<name>, \--set-default=<name>:
  Set default remote to remote named <name>.

\-v, \--verbose:
  Be a little more verbose and show remote url after name.

EXAMPLES
========

In case you want **kw** to track a new test machine, you can use::

  cd <kernel-path>
  kw remote add origin root@my-test-machine

If you do not use port 22, you can use::

  kw remote add my-x86-test-system root@my-test-machine:5555

If you want to remove some remote::

  kw remote remove origin

If you want to rename::

  kw remote rename origina arm-device

You can also list all your available remotes via::

 kw remote --list

If you want to set the default remote::

  kw remote --set-default=new-default-remote
