documentation/man/features/ssh.rst, before:

======
kw-ssh
======

.. _ssh-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-s | \--script) <script-path>]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-c | \--command) <string-command>]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-r | \--remote) <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>]

DESCRIPTION
===========
  Ssh into any machine reachable via the network. The ``--script`` parameter
  expects a bash script as a parameter to evaluate it in the target machine.
  The ``--command`` parameter expects a command to be executed inside of target
  machine.

OPTIONS
=======
-c <string-command>, \--command <string-command>:
  Receives a bash *<string-command>* to be executed remotely in the target
  machine.

-s <script-path>, \--script <script-path>:
  Receives the *<script-path>* of a local script to be run remotely.

-r <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>, \--remote <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>:
  Uses parameter to ssh into the target machine

EXAMPLES
========

For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

After you start your VM you can ssh into it with::

  kw s -c "dmesg -wH"
  kw s

Commit message:

src: kw_ssh: Adding verbose mode
This commit adds support for the verbose parameter within `kw ssh`.
The verbose parameter gives details of the commands that are executed
behind the scenes.

Closes: #851

Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <siqueirajordao@riseup.net>
Signed-off-by: Aquila Macedo <aquilamacedo@riseup.net>

documentation/man/features/ssh.rst, after:

======
kw-ssh
======

.. _ssh-doc:

SYNOPSIS
========
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-s | \--script) <script-path>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-c | \--command) <string-command>] [\--verbose]
| *kw* (*s* | *ssh*) [(-r | \--remote) <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>] [\--verbose]

DESCRIPTION
===========
  Ssh into any machine reachable via the network. The ``--script`` parameter
  expects a bash script as a parameter to evaluate it in the target machine.
  The ``--command`` parameter expects a command to be executed inside of target
  machine.

OPTIONS
=======
-c <string-command>, \--command <string-command>:
  Receives a bash *<string-command>* to be executed remotely in the target
  machine.

-s <script-path>, \--script <script-path>:
  Receives the *<script-path>* of a local script to be run remotely.

-r <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>, \--remote <USER@IP:PORT | CONFIG_HOST_NAME>:
  Uses parameter to ssh into the target machine

\--verbose:
  Verbose mode is an option that causes the kw program to display debug messages to track
  its progress. This functionality is very useful during the debugging process, allowing
  you to identify possible errors more easily.

EXAMPLES
========

For these examples, we suppose the fields in your **kworkflow.config** file are
already configured.

After you start your VM you can ssh into it with::

  kw s -c "dmesg -wH"
  kw s
