documentation/tutorials/buildlinux.rst, before:

============================================================
  How to build the Linux kernel for an x86_64 architecture
============================================================
.. _buildlinux:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:
   :backlinks: none

.. highlight:: console

Get a Linux repository
----------------------
After successfully :ref:`installing kw<install-and-remove-kw>`, it's time to
build the Linux kernel using it. Let's start by cloning the Linux repository
from Torvalds into our current working directory::

  git clone https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git

Then, change the current directory to the Linux repository::

  cd linux

.. note::
    From now on, all commands will assume you're in the kernel folder.

Get .config
-----------
To build the kernel, a `.config` file is necessary. This file contains
configurations about the kernel compilation process.
To retrieve this file from your computer, run either::

  cp /boot/config-`uname -r` .config

Or::

  zcat /proc/config.gz > .config

.. note::
    Get the .config file from the same Linux distribution you plan on using the
    customized kernel in.

Change .config a bit
--------------------
A small modification you can make in the `.config` file is changing the kernel
release name. To do that, run::

  kw build --menu

Or its shorter form::

  kw b -n

The default menu config option is set in the `kworkflow.config` file as
nconfig, but it can be changed, for instance, to menuconfig, or whichever you
prefer. To change this option, go into your kworkflow.config and look for::

  # Default kernel menu config option
  menu_config=nconfig

And, if you want to change it to `menuconfig`, change the value from the
menu_config variable so that it becomes::

  # Default kernel menu config option
  menu_config=menuconfig

After running the command above, go to `General setup`, then `Local version -
append to kernel release`, choose any name you like, save the new configuration
and exit the menu.

.. note::
    You can read more about the `kworkflow.config` file in our :ref:`manual<manual>`.

Build!
------
Building the kernel now is as easy as invoking::

  kw build

And it can be even simpler by just running::

  kw b

Well, that's it. kw will automatically infer the number of job slots for
compiling based on the number of cores of your machine (i.e. when running make 
-jNUMBER, NUMBER is an integer that specifies the number of processes that will
run at the same time), and compilation will begin!

Commit message:

src: build: run make olddefconfig before building
Makes kw run make olddefconfig before building the kernel to
automatically populate any unset options in .config. This also updates
the tests and documentation accordingly.

Closes #250

Signed-off-by: Rubens Gomes Neto <rubens.gomes.neto@usp.br>
Reviewed-by: Rodrigo Siqueira <rodrigosiqueiramelo@gmail.com>

documentation/tutorials/buildlinux.rst, after:

============================================================
  How to build the Linux kernel for an x86_64 architecture
============================================================
.. _buildlinux:

.. contents::
   :depth: 1
   :local:
   :backlinks: none

.. highlight:: console

Get a Linux repository
----------------------
After successfully :ref:`installing kw<install-and-remove-kw>`, it's time to
build the Linux kernel using it. Let's start by cloning the Linux repository
from Torvalds into our current working directory::

  git clone https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git

Then, change the current directory to the Linux repository::

  cd linux

.. note::
    From now on, all commands will assume you're in the kernel folder.

Get .config
-----------
To build the kernel, a `.config` file is necessary. This file contains
configurations about the kernel compilation process.
To retrieve this file from your computer, run either::

  cp /boot/config-`uname -r` .config

Or::

  zcat /proc/config.gz > .config

.. note::
    Get the .config file from the same Linux distribution you plan on using the
    customized kernel in.

Change .config a bit
--------------------
A small modification you can make in the `.config` file is changing the kernel
release name. To do that, run::

  kw build --menu

Or its shorter form::

  kw b -n

The default menu config option is set in the `kworkflow.config` file as
nconfig, but it can be changed, for instance, to menuconfig, or whichever you
prefer. To change this option, go into your kworkflow.config and look for::

  # Default kernel menu config option
  menu_config=nconfig

And, if you want to change it to `menuconfig`, change the value from the
menu_config variable so that it becomes::

  # Default kernel menu config option
  menu_config=menuconfig

After running the command above, go to `General setup`, then `Local version -
append to kernel release`, choose any name you like, save the new configuration
and exit the menu.

.. note::
    You can read more about the `kworkflow.config` file in our :ref:`manual<manual>`.

Build!
------
Building the kernel now is as easy as invoking::

  kw build

And it can be even simpler by just running::

  kw b

.. note:
    kw runs `make olddefconfig` before building.

Well, that's it. kw will automatically infer the number of job slots for
compiling based on the number of cores of your machine (i.e. when running make
-jNUMBER, NUMBER is an integer that specifies the number of processes that will
run at the same time), and compilation will begin!
