documentation/index.rst, before:

.. image:: kw_logo.png
    :alt: kw: Inglorious kernel developer workflow tool
    :align: center
    :target: https://kworkflow.org

kw - Kernel workflow Tool
=========================

**kw** has a simple mission: reduce the environment and setup overhead of
developing for Linux. **kw** is composed of different software components
unified in a single interface. After installation, ``kw`` commands become
available in the command line interface.

The kw project is available at `GitHub
<https://github.com/kworkflow/kworkflow>`_, and we also have a blog post which
can be accessed at `here <https://blog.kworkflow.org/>`_. For more information,
check:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   content/installanduninstall
   content/howtocontribute
   content/tests
   content/codingstyle
   content/developmentworkflow
   content/tracingandprofiling

Kw code doc
===========

Check out our code documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Code documentation:

   content/project_structure

kw Tutorials
============

Check out our tutorials to see how you can use kw.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Tutorials:

   tutorials/setup
   tutorials/manipulating-kw-config-file
   tutorials/buildlinux
   tutorials/cross-compilation
   tutorials/kernel-config-manager
   tutorials/deploy-kernel
   tutorials/rpi-deploy-kernel
   tutorials/kw-env
   tutorials/codestyle
   tutorials/find-maintainers
   tutorials/kernel-debug
   tutorials/pomodoro-report

kw Man
======

If you want to see kw man page, you can take a look at link below (The HTML
renderings of the man pages), or you can install kw and run the command
``kw man``.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Manual:

   man/kw

.. toctree::
   :glob:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   man/features/*

Indices and Tables
==================

* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

documentation: index.rst: Add the Handbook index
There is some information not covered by the current documentation,
mainly those related to the project workflow that are not clear to
new contributors.

add the new Handbook index in index.rst file.

Signed-off-by: Eduardo M Lopes <eduardolopes.2780@gmail.com>

documentation/index.rst, after:

.. image:: kw_logo.png
    :alt: kw: Inglorious kernel developer workflow tool
    :align: center
    :target: https://kworkflow.org

kw - Kernel workflow Tool
=========================

**kw** has a simple mission: reduce the environment and setup overhead of
developing for Linux. **kw** is composed of different software components
unified in a single interface. After installation, ``kw`` commands become
available in the command line interface.

The kw project is available at `GitHub
<https://github.com/kworkflow/kworkflow>`_, and we also have a blog post which
can be accessed at `here <https://blog.kworkflow.org/>`_. For more information,
check:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   content/installanduninstall
   content/howtocontribute
   content/tests
   content/codingstyle
   content/developmentworkflow
   content/tracingandprofiling

Kw Handbook
===========

Device and tips for new contributors.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Handbook:


Kw code doc
===========

Check out our code documentation.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Code documentation:

   content/project_structure

kw Tutorials
============

Check out our tutorials to see how you can use kw.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Tutorials:

   tutorials/setup
   tutorials/manipulating-kw-config-file
   tutorials/buildlinux
   tutorials/cross-compilation
   tutorials/kernel-config-manager
   tutorials/deploy-kernel
   tutorials/rpi-deploy-kernel
   tutorials/kw-env
   tutorials/codestyle
   tutorials/find-maintainers
   tutorials/kernel-debug
   tutorials/pomodoro-report

kw Man
======

If you want to see kw man page, you can take a look at link below (The HTML
renderings of the man pages), or you can install kw and run the command
``kw man``.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Manual:

   man/kw

.. toctree::
   :glob:
   :maxdepth: 1
   :hidden:

   man/features/*

Indices and Tables
==================

* :ref:`search`
